
[default]
save_search_field= gs
add_view=ga
bookmark= M
bookmarks= gb
bookmarks_nv=gB
bookmarks_nw=wB
remove_view=d
entry_history_back=Control k
entry_history_forward=Control j
download_set_execute=Control x
allow_cookie= CC
decrease_master=gh
entry_delete_letter=Control h
entry_delete_line=Control u
entry_delete_word=Control w
download_hint=gd
command_mode= :
find_backward= ?
find_forward= /
find_next= n
find_previous= N
focus_input= gi
focus_next= J
focus_nth_view=gv
focus_prev= K
hint_mode=f
hint_mode_nv=F
hint_mode_nw=wf
history_back= H
history_forward= L
increase_master=gl
insert_mode= i
show_keys= Sk
entry_word_back=Control b
entry_word_forward=Control f
new_view=V
new_window=W
open= o
paste= pp
paste_primary= pP
paste_primary_nv=wP
paste_nv=wp
push_master=gp
open_quickmark=b
open_quickmark_nv=B
open_quickmark_nw=wb
reload= r
save_quickmark= m
save_session= ZZ
save_named_session= gZZ
scroll_down= j
scroll_right= l
scroll_left= h
scroll_page_down=Control f
scroll_page_up=Control b
scroll_bottom= G
scroll_top= gg
scroll_up= k
set_global_setting=sgs
set_key= sk
set_setting= ss
scripts=gs
spell_checking=gs
show_settings= Ss
show_global_settings=Sgs
toggle_encoding=te
autoload_images=gs
autoresize_window=gs
toggle_block_content=ts
toggle_bottomstack=go
caret_browsing=gs
java_applets=gs
toggle_maximized=gm
plugins=gs
private_browsing=gs
proxy=Control p
view_source= gf
open_nv=O
open_nw=wo
yank= yy
yank_primary= yY
zoom_normal=z=
zoom_in= +
zoom_out= -
tab_new= ga
buffers= gt
cancel_download= ad
sanitize= 
clear_tab= gc
only= co
close_tab= d
entry_escape=Control c
entry_confirm=Control g
entry_delete_line_end=Control e
entry_delete_word_forward=Control e
complete_bookmarks=Control B
complete_history=Control H
complete_path=Control p
complete_searchengines=Control S
complete_userscript=Control U
allow_session_cookie_tmp= CT
allow_session_cookie= CS
download= gd
execute_javascript= 
eval= 
execute_userscript= eu
find_backward_ic= c?
find_forward_ic= c/
focus_tab= T
win_hist_back= wh
tab_hist_back= th
win_hist_forward= wl
tab_hist_forward= tl
load_html= 
load_html_tab= 
lock_domain= xd
lock_uri= xu
tab_move_left= gl
tab_move_right= gr
tab_move= gm
normal_mode=Control n
open_editor=Control e
quickmark= b
tab_quickmark= B
win_quickmark= wb
start_page=Control h
web_inspector= wi
tab_paste= Pp
win_paste= wp
win_paste_primary= wP
tab_paste_primary= PP
print=Control Mod1 p
protect=Control P
quit=Control q
reload_bypass_cache= R
reload_userscripts= 
save= sf
scroll_halfpage_down=Control d
scroll_halfpage_up=Control u
local_set= 
set= 
set_local_setting= sl
show_bookmarks= Sb
show_downloads= Sd
group_show=as
show_history= Sh
show_quickmarks= Sq
stop_loading=Control s
group_tag=am
toggle_local_setting= 
toggle_setting= 
toggle_tab=Control @Tab@
toggle_plugins_host_tmp= pth
toggle_scripts_host= tsh
toggle_scripts_host_tmp= tth
toggle_scripts_uri= tsu
toggle_plugins_uri_tmp= ptu
toggle_scripts_uri_tmp= ttu
fullscreen= @F11@
group_toggle=at
toggle_hidden_files= g.
toggle_plugins_host= ph
toggle_plugins_uri= pu
presentation_mode= @F12@
visible= xv
toggle_bars= xx
toggle_statusbar= xb
toggle_tabbar= xt
undo= u
dump= 
yank_title= yt
yank_title_primary= yT
zoom= =
hints_background= ;b
hints_images_background= ;Ib
hints_url_background= ;Ob
backopen_url= xO
backopen= xo
hints= f
hints_clipboard= ;y
hints_download= ;d
hints_editable= ;e
hints_images= ;i
hints_links= ;;
hints_primary= ;Y
hints_rapid= ;r
hints_url= ;o
new_tab=Control T
new_win= W
open_url= go
hints_tab= F
hints_images_tab= ;It
hints_url_tab= ;Ot
tab_bookmarks= gB
tabopen_url= gO
tabopen= O
hints_win= wf
hints_rapid_win= ;R
win_bookmarks= wB
winopen_url= wO
winopen= wo
tabdo= 
reload_bookmarks= 
reload_quickmarks= 
print_preview= 
entry_delete_active=Control d
tabgrep= 
jump= '
mark= `
adblock_reload_rules= 
repeat= .
visual_mode= v
hints_selector= 
